## Project Goals
**Summary:** Creating a flexible, JSON schema based serverless CRUD platform so as to create a low-cost database system. 

**Usage:** If you want a new server system of CRUD with a new format, all the user need to do is to define a JSON Schema for the database and GUI and the system is generic enough to make sure it works for a variety of use cases. The user would need to do only the following tasks

1. Define a JSON schema for the data structure
2. Configure credentials like AWS, Google and other credentials
3. Deploy via Github Actions, ideally single click
4. Test the server via autogenerated postman script, and the automated script validates that the server is good.


**Note:** They will have everything to test the server via autogenerated postman script, and the automated script validates that the server is good for deployment.


## General Notes
1. Use Github for documentation, notes and everything associated with the project. Bug reporting and every aspect of development.
2. You are heavily encouraged to use tools like **Github Copilot** or **ChatGPT**
3. Minimize the amount of code written. Less code => Less bugs
4. Make sure you _do not_ hard code any information. If you find any code is hardcoded then there is likely to cause an issue towards the project goals
5. Test, Test, Test and Test more, failing early is the best way to success.
6. Define a few JSON Schemas to test the flexibility of the code and to ensure that there is no hardcoding
7. Use the `server-v1` code as a reference, **DO NOT** use any code from there. **Reusing of code** can lead to more complex development issues and cause more concerns in stability, and eventual state of goals of the project.
8. **NO DELIVERABLE** will be marked as complete without a fully automated deployment, testing and documentation generation. This is the key goal of the project.
9. Absolutely zero code should be written in JS. All code should be written in TS and then compiled to JS. This is to ensure that the code is type safe and to ensure that the code is of high quality.
10. Each Phase of the project has to be independent and is completely usable. This is to ensure that the project is modular and can be used in a variety of use cases. This is also to ensure that the project is flexible and can be used in a variety of use cases. 

## Key Features
1. Database and UI defined by the same JSON schema
2. Serverless system with low cost of deployment and use to rapidly generate a new server
3. Flexible to support multiple environments, multiple tables, and multiple users
4. Authentication and authorization of users
5. Automated test suite to validate the quality of the system
6. Automated deployment via Github Actions and serverless.com
7. Automated test script generation via Github Actions and JSON Schema
8. Automated GUI generation via JSON Schema
9. Automated documentation generation via JSON Schema and Github Actions
10. Automated API documentation generation via JSON Schema and Github Actions

## Technology Stack
|  | # | Technology / Language / Library | Role | Usage |  |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|  | 1 | Serverless.com | IaaS | Used to easily define the technology stack and to create the serverless infrastructure on AWS |  |
|  | 2 | AWS Lamda Function | SS | Serverless Function that allows low-cost execution of the middleware of the system |  |
|  | 3 | AWS CLoudfront Distribution | IaaS | Cloudfront is used as a CDN to distribute HTML and other static assets with low cost rather than serving from an S3 bucket directly |  |
|  | 4 | AWS S3 | IaaS, SS | File storage for files uploaded via GUI and improve DB performance rather than storing files in DB |  |
|  | 5 | AWS Dynamo DB | IaaS, SS | DB Storage of data in NoSQL format |  |
|  | 6 | AWS IAM Roles | IaaS | Access control management to ensure that security is maintained in the system |  |
|  | 7 | AWS API Gateway | IaaS | To expose the serverless platform as an API through the web |  |
|  | 8 | Serverside: TypeScript | SS | Serverside code written in TS, and then compiled into JS, for type safety, we will NOT write any code in JS directly |  |
|  | 9 | Clientside: TypeScript | GUI | Clientside code written in TS, and then compiled into JS, for type safety, we will NOT write any code in JS directly |  |
|  | 10 | Postman | TSG | Used to generate test script and accessible interface for server usage |  |
|  | 11 | Github Actions | GA, TSG | Used to create   1. Running serverless.com commands on successful code commit    a. Push static assets to s3 (i.e. html, js, images etc)    b. Push compiled assets to AWS Lambda Functions 2. To cross compile TS code to JS so that it can be packaged for deployment in both client and server side code 3. To run automated test suite of postman commands and to validate the quality of the system |  |
|  | 12 | RJSF | GUI | This is used to automatically create a form from JSON Schema |  |
|  | 13 | Google Login API | GUI, SS | Used to authenticate users onto the system |  |
|  | 14 | JSON Schema | GUI, SS | Used for a universal definition of server, gui, and database of the whole system. |  |


## Details of Components and Roles
This section details the roles of each team member and to ensure that the project goals are met. The team members are as follows:

### Graphical User Interface (GUI)
The goal of this team member is to create a GUI that is fully auto-generated via JSON Schema information. You can look at the current implementation and its code to see how it works. And improve the code to do the following. Follow the best practices of GUI development including seperating HTML, CSS and JS code. It is also important to enable supporting multiple environments like development, testing and production environments. These are configured via environment variables.
### Test Script Generation (TSG)
The goal of this team member is to create a test script that is fully auto-generated via JSON Schema information. You can look at the current implementation and its code to see how it works. And improve the code to automatically generate postman script files that can be used by users of the system, testers of the system and to validate the quality of the system. It is also important to enable supporting multiple environments like development, testing and production environments. These are configured via environment variables.

### Github Actions (GA)
The goal of this team member is to create a Github Actions and maintain Github Actions. The key activties of Github Actions member is to create the following Github Actions
1. Running serverless.com commands on successful code commit
    1. Push static assets to s3 (i.e. html, js, images etc)
    2. Push compiled assets to AWS Lambda Functions
2. To cross compile TS code to JS so that it can be packaged for deployment in both client and server side code
3. To run automated test suite of postman commands and to validate the quality of the system

### Server Code (SS)
The team member is responsible for writing the genralized code that is used to create the server. The code is written in TypeScript and then compiled into JS. The code is then packaged and deployed to AWS Lambda Functions. The code is responsible for the activities of CRUD based on JSON schema, and is flexible to support multiple environments, multiple tables, and multiple users. The code is also responsible for authentication and authorization of users. The code is also responsible for the activities of CRUD based on JSON schema, and is flexible to support multiple environments, multiple tables, and multiple users. The code is also responsible for authentication and authorization of users.

### Serverless and AWS (IaaS)
This member is responsible for creating the serverless infrastructure on AWS. This includes creating the following, supporting multiple environments, multiple tables, and multiple users. The code is also responsible for authentication and authorization of users.
1. AWS Lamda Function
2. AWS CLoudfront Distribution
3. AWS S3
4. AWS Dynamo DB
5. AWS IAM Roles
6. AWS API Gateway

## Development Phases

### A - CR Phase (Create and Read)
This phase focuses on replicating `server-v1` and to ensure that the code is flexible to support multiple environments, multiple tables, and multiple users. This phase is to replicate ALL the features of `server-v1` with TS and to make it flexible to support any JSON schema. 
### B - Multi-Table CR Phase
The second phase focuses on improving the phase 1 code to support multiple tables. This phase is to implement multiple JSON schema (via a tabbed interface in GUI) and multiple tables in the DB. We will only focus on Create and Read operations only in this phase.
### C - UD Phase
The third phase focuses on improving the phase 2 code to support Update and Delete operations. This phase is to implement Update and Delete operations in the GUI and in the server code.

## Resources and Knowledge
### What you might Need to Know
1. Basic knowledge of AWS
2. Basic knowledge of Serverless
3. Basic knowledge of TypeScript
4. Basic knowledge of JSON Schema
5. Basic knowledge of React
6. Basic knowledge of Postman
7. Basic knowledge of Github Actions
8. Basic knowledge of HTML, CSS and JS
9. Basic knowledge of AWS API Gateway
10. Basic knowledge of AWS Lambda Functions
11. Basic knowledge of AWS CLoudfront Distribution
12. Basic knowledge of AWS S3
13. Basic knowledge of AWS Dynamo DB
14. Basic knowledge of AWS IAM Roles
15. Basic knowledge of Google Login API
16. Basic knowledge of RJSF

### What resources you might need
1. AWS Account (Free Tier)
2. Serverless Account (Free Tier)
3. Github Account (I have a pro account)
4. Postman Account (Free Tier)
5. Google Login API (Free Tier)
6. Domain (I wil provide a domain with nameserver edits when needed, please let me know when you need it and what actions you need me to do, for example, setting up API gateway, redirecting to cloudfront, setting up Google Login API etc.)

If your AWS account goes beyond Free Tier, it is very likely that there is something significantly wrong with the code. I have been running `server-v1` for about 8 months and with two environments it has not gone beyond Free Tier. So if you are running into issues, please let me know.



## High Level Goals and Milestones
* Week 1 - 2: **Learning Phase:** Replication of `server-v1` and fully understand how the server is deployed 
* Week 2 - 6: **Phase A:** Full functional rewrite of `server-v1` in TS with absolutely zero hardcoded information.
* Week 6 - 8: **Phase B:** Extend Phase A to support multiple DB tables and multiple JSON schema.
* Week 8 - 10: **Phase C:** Extend Phase B to support Update and Delete operations.
* Week 10 - 13: Incase of spill over, we will focus on improving the code quality and to ensure that the code is fully tested and documented.

## Failures Modes
* If the code is not automated the project will fail.
* If the code is not flexible to support multiple environments, multiple tables, and multiple users, the project will fail.
* If the code is not flexible to support multiple JSON schema, the project will fail.
* If we do not have a fully automated CI/CD pipeline, the project will fail.
* If the code is not fully tested, the project will fail.
* If the code is not fully documented, the project will fail.

## Communication
* Instant Messaging: Slack #org-skoll-serverless-schema-crud on https://uscviterbiclass.slack.com
* Meetings (Zoom): Book via https://sandeepzgk.youcanbookme.com/
* Meeting Schedule: OnDemand + Once a Delivery (TBD)

